Tutorial: How to set up customer-facing analytics (#5631)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/tutorials/customer-facing-analytics.md

---
title: How to set up customer-facing analytics with PostHog, Next.js, and Tremor
date: 2023-03-25
author: ["ian-vanagas"]
showTitle: true
sidebar: Docs
featuredImage: ../images/tutorials/banners/tutorial-9.png
topics: ['insights']
---

> If your users have their own users, sometimes your users want analytics about their users. For example, if you are a host, content platform, or some other type of B2B2C product, your users might want to know their traffic or usage metrics. Customer-facing analytics are analytics you capture and display to your users to fulfill this need.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are a host, content platform, or some other type of B2B2C product, your users might want to know their traffic or usage metrics. Customer-facing analytics are analytics you capture and display to your users to fulfill this need. To put it another way: If your users have their own users, sometimes your users want analytics about their users.
```

This tutorial shows you how to set up customer-facing analytics using PostHog and its API, Next.js, and Tremor (a React visualization library). You need a PostHog instance ([sign up for free](https://app.posthog.com/signup)) as well as a way to filter your analytics for an individual user, such as a user or group property (like name, domain, ID).

> > Thanks to [Mintlify](https://mintlify.com/) for the inspiration for this tutorial.

Reviewer: I'm working on a Mintlify case study. I'll probably build this out and add more links when that's live.

## Creating sample customer-facing insights

First, create insights to act as a reference for your customer-facing dashboard. This may include insights like:

- unique visitor count
- pageviews
- form submissions
- button clicks

> These all must be filterable by a group or person property so you can show each user the insights relevant to them. As an example, we will create two insights, a pageview line graph and an "insights created" number. We filter them for the group named "PostHog" as an example of a filter. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These must all be filterable by a group or person property so you can show each user the insights relevant to them. As an example, we will create two insights, a pageview line graph and an "insights created" number. We filter them for the group named "PostHog" as an example of a filter. 
```

![Insight](../images/tutorials/customer-facing-analytics/insight.png)

> **Note:** if you are testing your sample insight filter with your own company (like for me and PostHog), make sure to uncheck "Filter out internal and test users."

Together on a dashboard, they look like this:

![Dashboard](../images/tutorials/customer-facing-analytics/dashboard.png)

These sample insights help us figure out the params to make API requests to filter and get this data for all the different users.

## Getting the params for our API request

Next, we need to set up the API requests to get the data from PostHog for our customer-facing insights. To do this, we will use the `<ph_instance_address>/api/projects/<project_id>/insights/trend` endpoint with `events`, `display`, and `properties` params, but we need to figure out these params first.

> To quickly figure out the params for our request, we can make a different request to each of the insights individually. To do this, get the "short ID" from the URL of each of the insights, it is an eight character value like `HmKFweHR`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To quickly figure out the params for our request, we can make a different request to each of the insights individually. To do this, get the "short ID" from the URL of each of the insights. It is an eight character value like `HmKFweHR`:
```

To make the API request to get the data about this insight, you need the insight short ID, your project ID (found in project settings), and a personal API key. To create a personal API key:

1. Click the icon in the top right corner of your PostHog instance.
2. Click the gear next to your name and email. 
3. On the "My settings" page, scroll down to "Personal API Keys." 
4. Click the "Create personal API key" button. 
5. Add a name and click "Create key."  
6. Copy your personal API key.

With your personal API key, project ID, and insight short ID, you can make a request to the `<ph_instance_address>/api/projects/<project_id>/insights` endpoint (different from the one we’ll use later) to get all the data about that insight like this: 

```bash
curl --location '<ph_instance_address>/api/projects/<project_id>/insights/?short_id=<short_id>' \
--header 'Authorization: Bearer <ph_personal_api_key>'
```

The objects and arrays we want are under `results` → `filters` → `events`, `properties`, `display`. Copy them to use them in the next step.

![Request](../images/tutorials/customer-facing-analytics/request.png)

## Creating our customer-facing analytics Next.js app

> You will likely build customer-facing analytics into your app, but for this tutorial, we build ours as a [Next.js app](/tutorials/nextjs-analytics). The first step is to create a basic Next.js app:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will likely build customer-facing analytics into your app, but for this tutorial, we'll build ours as a [Next.js app](/tutorials/nextjs-analytics). The first step is to create a basic Next.js app:
```
